The ocean produces over half of the world’s oxygen and absorbs 50 times more carbon dioxide than our atmosphere. So if we keep on polluting our waters, too much nitrogen and phosphorus can take place in the ocean, causing oxygen depletion. Each year, billions of pounds of trash and other things end up in the ocean which covers more than two-thirds of the planet, providing food, livelihoods, and recreational value to billions around the world. Ocean pollution threatens many of those benefits. 

What it Threatens
	Plastic Waste makes up about 80% of marine pollution. Almost 14 million tons of plastic waste come into our oceans each year. Marine animals can get injuries or even die by eating or getting tangled in plastic debris. Plastic breaks down into small particles called microplastics, making it very easy for animals to eat it.  Plastic pollution threatens food safety and quality, human health, and coastal tourism, and contributes to climate change.
	The greatest impact of plastic pollution is the ingestion, suffocation, and entanglement of hundreds of marine species. Many marine wildlife such as seabirds, whales, fish, and turtles mistake plastic for prey. Most of those animals die of starvation because their stomachs are full of plastic. All those animals also suffer from lacerations, infections, reduced ability to swim, and internal injuries. 
	Microplastics have been found in tap water, beer, and salt. Many chemicals that are used in the production of plastic, can injure or even kill humans and marine life. When marine animals ingest plastic, we can end up eating that seafood and receive injury or death. 
	Plastic waste can make our beaches look horrible and not aesthetic, which is not helping the tourism of some places. It also costs a lot of money for someone to clean and maintain the beaches. The build-up of plastic on beaches can hurt the country’s economy, wildlife, and the environment. 
	Plastic production also contributes significantly to climate change. If plastic waste gets destroyed, it can release carbon dioxide and methane into the atmosphere, therefore increasing emissions. 
	In the past 20 years, many studies have found plastic compounds in a lot of the seafood that we eat. Heavy metals and other contaminants can accumulate in seafood, making it harmful for humans to eat.
	Less than 15% of the plastic in the world gets recycled. This problem comes from two big things. The higher cost of recycled versus raw plastic and the fact that harsh plastic such as thin bags and films, cannot be economically recycled. To try and fix this problem, companies need to make far less plastic than they do today and people need to start recycling more. 
	About every minute a dump-truck load of plastic ends up in our ocean, damaging beaches, hurting wildlife, and contaminating our food supply. Plastic left on the ground can blow into rivers or streams and end up in the ocean.  Plastic trash is very different from other types of waste. Unlike other types of waste, plastic trash does not decompose back into nature like an apple core or paper, it stays in the ocean forever. 	
	By the year 2050, it is said that ocean plastic will outweigh all of the fish in the ocean. So much plastic debris just sits on the bottom of the ocean floor, most of this we can’t even reach. So there is no way we can be able to pick it up. 
	Studies have found that there are now 51 trillion pieces of plastic in the world’s oceans. From the equator to the poles, from Arctic ice sheets to the sea floor. Not one square mile of surface ocean anywhere on earth is free of plastic pollution. The plastic pollution problem is growing into a crisis.  

Kinds of Ocean Pollution
	Industries are saying that plastic production will increase by forty percent over the next decade. It has been shown that every single piece of plastic ever made still exists. There are many kinds of ocean pollution, including, sunscreen, oil spills, plastic, sewage, eutrophication, and industrial waste. 
	Many sunscreens and other topicals put on at the beach contain harmful chemicals that can harm coral reefs. Sunscreen can have very harmful chemical compounds, including oxybenzone, which can completely bleach hard coral. Sunscreen, insect repellent, tanning oils, and other topicals wash off your skin when you are in the ocean and hurt sea urchins, fish, and other marine animals. 
	When oil leaks from your car it can end up in the ocean, harming sea creatures and even making seafood unsafe to eat. When oil ends up in the ocean it can stay there for years, even decades. Oil can harm many animals because its chemical constituents are poisonous. Oil spills threaten the microorganisms in the seas that provide much of the world’s oxygen supplies. 
	Sometimes septic tanks can fail or do not function properly, due to how old they are, poor design, and maintenance. 80% of the sewage in our homes makes its way into the ocean, without being treated properly. Not only does sewage harm our marine animals, but it can also hurt us. Every year about 3.5 million people get sick from swimming in the ocean because the water is contaminated. 
	Eutrophication, also known as dead zones, can lead an animal to suffocate and die. Dead zones occur in the lack of enough oxygen dissolved in an area with excess nutrients. There are almost 500 dead zones in our ocean. The largest dead zone in the world lies in the Arabian Sea, which covers about 64,000 square miles. 
	Industries such as oil refineries, paper factories, textile, and chemical factories. Lots of the time industrial waste from these industries end up getting dumped into the ocean. The toxic chemicals leaked from this waste can make our water unsafe for human consumption. These toxic chemicals can also cause the temperature in freshwater systems to change, making them dangerous for marine life.
	Most people believe that our ocean is so big that it can handle the amount of plastic and other debris we dump in it. This is not true at all. Experts say that by 2050 there will be more plastic than fish in the sea, or maybe only plastic left. They also say that 90% of our coral reefs may be dead, many marine animals might become extinct, and our seas might become overheated. 

How to Help Save the Ocean
	Although we will never be able to remove every single piece of plastic from the ocean. We can at least try to clean up most of it. There are many things we can do to help save our ocean. Including,  conserving water, reducing pollutants, shopping wisely, using less energy, reducing waste, and respecting habitat. 
	Most of the water we use in our everyday life ends up outside on the road, picking up pollution, and then that water lands up in our ocean. There are many ways to try to prevent this but some are: turning off your water when you are brushing your teeth, installing low-flow showerheads, and fixing leaky plumbing. One leaky toilet can waste as much as 200 gallons of water per day.
Pollutants can promote the growth of algae blooms, which can be toxic to wildlife and harmful to humans. When you buy chemicals at the store, make sure they are non-toxic and dispose of all chemicals properly.
When you use a plastic bag, that bag will probably end up in the ocean and hurt marine life. So maybe next time you need a bag you can use a reusable bag. 
Marine debris can injure or kill marine and coastal wildlife, damage and degrade habitats, interfere with navigational safety, cause economic loss to fish and maritime industries, degrade the quality of life in coastal communities, and threaten human health and safety. We can help prevent some of this by using less plastic and recycling more. 
Scientists suggest that plastic could be contributing to ocean acidification, this is especially happening in more populated areas. When the sun beams on the plastic, particularly the older and more degraded plastic it releases a high amount of organic acid and carbon dioxide into the ocean. Organic acids are known to lower the amount of pH in the water. 
	Our ocean is one of the most mysterious places on the planet. The ocean covers over 71 percent of the Earth’s surface. There are more than 2 million living species in our ocean. So if we want to keep all these species alive and healthy we need to reduce the amount of plastic we use and recycle a lot more. If we do not do this, our ocean could become deadly, not only to animals but to humans as well. Lots of marine animals in our oceans could become extinct. 
	The five most common items found in our oceans are plastic cigarette buds, food wrappers, plastic beverage bottles, plastic bottle caps, and plastic straws. If we all recycled all of these items, our oceans would be ten times cleaner than they are at this moment. 
	There is an island of garbage twice the size of Texas in the pacific ocean. The number of floating plastic pieces in the water outnumbers the total marine life, six to one. If we keep dumping our garbage into the ocean there could soon be more garbage than animals in the ocean. 
	Water is one of the few essential elements that humans, animals, and any living thing needs to have to survive. Since water pollution has been an issue for over 100 years, it’s very difficult to fix this problem quickly, it is going to take a long time to get anywhere close to fixing water pollution. Water pollution is a serious issue going on right now and we have to make an effort to take care of the Earth more and stop this from getting worse. Ultimately, the reason why we still have ocean pollution around is that we do not have the right systems to help us eliminate water waste. 
	We all need to try to prevent ocean pollution from becoming a crisis. We need to try to watch carefully what we throw away and what we recycle. We need to stop putting off this problem and do something about it. 
